♪Opening Song♪
[NARRATOR]
When the winter chill begins
to drain the breath
from our bodies,
we may feel the coming
of a false spring.
If we tarry too long
to enjoy the warmth,
the cold will soon
return to claim us.
What's that?
Flowers? So early?
A butterfly!
[SQUIRREL chirps]
[GINKO grunts]
[knocking]
Yes, who is it?
I got caught in the storm
and I was hoping that maybe you
could put me up for the night?
Come in.
[SUZU grunts]
Miharu?
Why would he get up so
early in the morning?
[SUZU]
Did he go outside?
[footsteps]
[sighs]
[GINKO]
What does he think he's doing?
Hm?
[GINKO]
No! That's dangerous!
Stop! Don't touch it!
[pants]
Miharu!
[gasps]
[SUZU]
What's wrong?
What's he done?
Tell him it's not safe to pick
up strange things in the woods
without learning
what they are first.
Huh?
Aw, no fair, that was a
really interesting one.
You mean you were
doing it again?
You little fool!
Wait... please!
Does that mean...
...you can see the
things he says he sees?
[GINKO] These creatures
are known as mushi.
The few who can see them
are either afraid of them
or fascinated by them.
I'd say the boy falls
into the latter category.
You're right. As long
as I can remember,
he's always been
fond of animals,
of any living thing.
He used to bring home
strays to look after.
But three winters ago, when he
started seeing those things,
he began to act strange.
That winter,
Miharu went missing.
He disappeared in the mountains.
For several days after that,
there was a terrible blizzard.
[VILLAGER]
We have to turn back.
There's nothing more
we can do tonight.
[SUZU] It was hopeless.
We gave him up for lost.
Then, one day...
[SUZU]
Miharu?
[SUZU] He appeared out of
nowhere with the spring.
After that, he began
talking about those
strange things,
and chasing after them.
And the next winter, when our
food stores began to run out,
he suddenly disappeared again.
Later, we found him
collapsed in the snow
at the edge of the village.
He stayed in a deep
sleep until spring came.
[SUZU] His pockets were full
of edible mountain greens.
A variety that never
grows in the winter.
When I asked him where
he'd been, he said,
Don't remember.
Just make sure you don't
let anyone else see that.
there'll only be trouble
if people find out.
That's all I could
get out of him.
It's been difficult to get
by with just the two of us.
I can understand his
wanting to help out.
But all this scares me.
I don't know what
to make of it.
It can't be natural.
Huh. From what you've said,
it sounds like it could
be a Harumagui.
A what?
Harumagui?
[GINKO] Yes. It means
"false springtime".
There are mushi
called usobuki
that look like
blossoms on a tree.
they give off a peculiar scent
that makes hibernating
plants and animals
awaken in mid-winter.
The usobuki then feed off the
life energy of these creatures,
which in turn causes
them to fall back
into hibernation
until the real spring.
[GINKO] I'm afraid I
don't much more than that.
I see, but what exactly
are these mushi things?
Most of them aren't really
all that frightening.
If you leave them alone,
they won't cause
you any trouble.
But in your brother's case...
I suppose I could stay awhile
and teach him which
ones are dangerous.
[gasps]
[GINKO]
Hey, Miharu.
You see that one over there?
That's one to avoid,
it's a trouble maker.
Hey! Are you even
listening to me?!
[MIHARU]
Look!
I found a ton of
them in this hole!
Aw... don't pull
them out of there!
Start using
your head, will ya'?
[GINKO]
It's like talking to a wall!
[GINKO] So, where'd you
find those greens?
Don't remember.
Look, I'm not gonna try to
take them away or anything.
It's okay to show me.
You gonna tell my sister?
I just want to study them.
I make my living doing
this sort of thing.
[MIHARU]
Hmm.
You realize...
...that you're making your
sister worry, don't you?
You should at least tell
her where you got them.
And then you'd follow her
and find out where
they came from, right?
[GINKO] Listen, I know
you just want to help.
But if you let your sister
go on worrying like this,
you're just being selfish.
You're lucky to have a place
where you're loved and belong.
Don't get sucked over
to the other side.
[MIHARU]
Oh! I've seen that one!
[GINKO]
Very good.
Now what about this one?
[MIHARU]
Mm... I don't think so.
Miharu, you've got
to concentrate. Listen!
[MIHARU grunts]
[SUZU grunts]
I'm sorry, he's exhausted.
Could we continue
tomorrow, perhaps?
That's fine by me.
I really don't have anything
else to do as long as I'm here.
So tell me, how long do you
think you'll be able to stay?
[GINKO sighs]
[GINKO]
It's hard to say.
I guess I can stay awhile.
At least until I've taught him
about all the local mushi.
He's a pretty
fast learner, so maybe...
...maybe another ten days.
It all depends on this area.
On the area? Why?
Well, the problem is,
I'm sort of a mushi magnet.
I can't stay too
long in places
that are rich in mushi
without attracting them.
And no good comes of having
too many mushi in one place.
But judging from what
Miharu's told me,
there doesn't seem
to be too many mushi
concentrated in this area.
I guess it won't hurt
to stay a little longer.
That's good. You can
stay as long as you like.
Besides, winter travel
is difficult.
At least stay until spring.
[GINKO]
All right.
If the mountain paths
don't clear earlier.
[GINKO]
Hm?
What's that?
A chrysalis?
[GINKO]
It was right around there...
Could it have been... a mushi?
Have I started attracting them?
[GINKO] There are more
than there were before.
[GINKO] Maybe I've stayed
a little too long.
[gasps]
Hey, Ginko!
I have go to the village!
Can you watch Miharu!
He's inside, taking a nap!
[GINKO]
Sure!
Be careful, all right?
Hey, Miharu!
You here somewhere?
Damn that kid.
He's gone wandering off
in the mountains again.
[GINKO]
How far could he have gone?
[sighs]
Damn it. Now which way?
[GINKO]
Miharu!
[GINKO sighs] Maybe I should
backtrack and start over.
Miharu, come on! Wake up!
[GINKO]
What's this?
The Harumagui...
Could it be?
[MIHARU snores]
[GINKO]
It's not your fault.
He's gonna be all right.
The symptoms are
the same as before.
So, I'm sure he'll
wake up in the spring.
[gasps]
[GINKO] I'd like to stay
with you until then,
but I've got to start moving.
[gasps]
But you can't!
Miharu will miss you
when he wakes up!
I'm sorry, Suzu.
[GINKO]
Wait for me... I'll be back.
[NARRATOR]
When the real world awakens,
the phantom world goes to sleep.
[NARRATOR]
High in the winter mountains,
a lone traveler senses
the coming of spring.
Hey... Suzu.
Ginko...
[gasps]
[GINKO]
Wait. He's still asleep?
But it's been a year!
I know.
I've been at my wits' end
trying to understand.
What could have gone wrong?
[GINKO]
There's one chance.
I've got to find the
place on the mountain
where those greens came from.
You mustn't,
it's too dangerous!
You could end up
just like Miharu!
Miharu should've woken up
in the spring, shouldn't he?
Whatever used to wake
him up is missing.
I've got to go find it.
If I don't come back,
have them search the
north side of the mountain.
[GINKO]
Let's see...
Last year his footprints
headed off in this direction.
[GINKO pants]
[GINKO]
Damn.
Where the hell is this place?
[GINKO]
A butterfly?
That was in Miharu's wrap!
[GINKO]
That sweet scent...
Ah! That way!
The air in this place...
I'm starting to
get light-headed.
[GINKO] I better not
stay here too long.
Okay, usobuki take the form
of tree blossoms, so...
...Huh.
[GINKO] Damn. They all look
like ordinary blossoms.
[GINKO]
There's got to be something.
Some clue.
[GINKO] Its body
temperature is dropping.
[GINKO]
The scent. It's changing.
What is this?
My body's... getting colder.
I can't... move my hand.
[gasps]
[GINKO grunts]
Why are those butterflies
the only things still...?
[GINKO grunts]
This is a...
I've been such a blind idiot.
[GINKO]
Now I get it.
But I'm so sleepy.
I can't...
[SUZU]
You fool.
You stupid, stupid fool.
What do I do?
What now?
I don't know how to wake you up!
[SUZU sobs]
What's that?
That was strange.
It seemed as if
something flew out.
[shuffling]
[GINKO]
What's that?
That scent...
Oh.
It must be spring.
[GINKO]
What's that? Up there?
Y-You're awake!
[gasps]
Miharu!
[SUZU]
Miharu?! Miha--
[MIHARU grunst]
[gasps]
[MIHARU]
Sis?
[GINKO] After the
flower-like creature
on the ceiling released
its fragrance,
it changed into
something else.
Something I recognized.
[GINKO] The thing I first
thought was a chrysalis
was actually an usobuki.
So, it seems the
usobuki's metamorphosis
somehow signals the end of
the Harumagui, is that it?
[MIHARU]
Mm-hm.
If you hadn't set that
butterfly free by accident,
it would've turned into a flower
in the spring and woken me up.
It would've helped if you'd
told me that right away.
I know, but I liked the
butterflies the best.
I wanted to keep them a secret.
[MIHARU]
They grew those greens
that helped us
out in the winter.
and they looked so beautiful,
flying around in the snow.
But they... they were just doing
what they had to do to survive,
not to help us, weren't they?
That's right.
You're starting to catch on.
See... the mushi aren't
really our friends at all.
More like unusual neighbors.
You can never
really trust them.
[GINKO] But, you're perfectly
free to like them.
Thanks.
[MIHARU] Hey. You wanna come
by the house before you go?
Thanks, but I've stayed
here too long as it is.
I need to get moving again.
Okay.
But Sis is gonna miss you.
Make sure you tell her I said
thank you for everything.
[MIHARU] Hey! You will come
back sometime, won't you?
Maybe.
Only next time it won't
be in the winter.
Why wouldn't it?
[GINKO] Because people
shouldn't let themselves
get weak that time of year.
[NARRATOR] The beginning
of a fleeting spring
stirs the air in
the icy mountains.
The glow from the home
along the snowy path
invites all creatures,
beasts, mushi
and humans alike,
to seek a respite
from their wanderings.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "Sunrise Serpent"